this is one of the best sequences ever
committed to film in my opinion
this shot here i love but at the same
time there's so many things wrong with
it you know the solution i do know the
solution i'm gonna let you guys guess
hey guys what's up welcome back to
another episode of visual effects artist
react today we are joined by alan mckay
ever since starting the show i've had a
chance to meet the guys that make the
tutorials that i learn from when doing
visual effects so back in the day when i
was trying to learn how to do explosions
and fire and destruction it was alan's
tutorials that got me into it now alan
here has a huge body of work he's worked
on a ton of amazing things i can't wait
to hear what you think about some of the
stuff that we have planned yeah i can't
wait
of course with the super bowl comes lots
of great commercials but there's one in
particular that i really enjoyed
starring my favorite actor jason momoa
he's your favorite actor i don't know
why i said that i like him a lot i don't
know if he's my favorite actor
he seems like the most chill actor ever
i feel like any actor that's also a
bodybuilder is usually a pretty
down-to-earth person totally except in
this video he's not exactly a
bodybuilder that's true totally
comfortable in my own skin
you know what i'm saying
i love how it just comes out of nowhere
though just like just casually pulling
off arms it looks so weird yeah it does
kind of have a little bit of that
uncanny look look at that mission
impossible face pull thing going on so
how do you guys think that they pulled
this off because obviously he's a he's a
ripped dude do you think they just did
the thing they did for captain america
and what was that i mean is everything
from like warping the body to be skinny
to you know filming another dude doing a
head replacement so that would be the
complicated answer if you've got
millions of dollars to throw at a marvel
movie but it is a super bowl commercial
which also has millions of dollars
thrown at it but what they actually did
here wait wait wait you know the
solution i do know the solution i'm
going to let you guys guess
alan you're the master let's test your
knowledge you know put the pressure on
me here's the interesting thing about
cgi is that there are going to be always
different ways you can go about it so
that's true i would say it's a
combination of head replacement as well
as 3d arms and then doing some warping
everything else in between the only cue
that i noticed that could possibly be an
indicator is how they do it is once he
takes off the wig he shakes his head and
when he shakes his head his elbows don't
twist with him that's usually a sign
that the head is added separately yeah
is it completely right here yeah so in
real life if i go like this like it's
almost impossible not to have my
shoulders go like this you guys are
right it's a complete body double
there's a super skinny dude so he's
wearing the same clothes he's got the
same tattoos but it's just a head
replacement on top of him i think they
actually go through passes where jason
momoa actually like does the action and
then the body double does the action and
then it's just like clever compositing
so speaking of super bowl commercials
you also worked on a super bowl
commercial it was god of war that's
right
definitely has like a 300 vibe to it
yeah totally is the background real yeah
that was all shot in chatsworth hills
when she starts rolling up the hill that
was all shot in green screen so we're at
a sound stage in hollywood so there's a
lot of matte painting a lot of reference
photography so that there was all shot
in green screen so i i love this because
it was this story of like he's going off
the war for me i still have such a
beautiful kind of symbolic story that's
being told without any words
this shot here i love but at the same
time like there's so many things wrong
with it that uh
yeah there's a few elements of like the
dust is like way too prominent that
there are more kind of background
elements and they're sitting on top of
everything and just kind of i'm always
just looking at the dust and it's like i
can't
see it's a little like low res compared
to like how defined all the ashes are we
had a 3d modeled track of her face to
match the whole thing and then you're
doing texture maps the tricky part
obviously was the hair yeah i was
actually just looking at that how do you
have hair solidified so that was a total
cheat where you're just creating a roto
of the hair and you're just like
dropping it down and blending it so it's
a total cheat but um it worked how many
times do you end up redoing an effect
shot originally if it's a commercial it
might be the agency or the director but
then finally the actual company hiring
them they have notes on it as well or if
it's a studio you're gonna have studio
notes which is the exec who typically
doesn't actually work in this industry
like they're more business side of
things like superman returns at one
point they're like wouldn't be cool if
superman lost his cape and uh he can't
fly around for half the movie and he's
got to stay on the ground that was a
studio note but they understand that
superman doesn't need his cape to fly
right this is i mean this isn't
something that gets fragile because you
can't argue with the studio they're the
money people so it's like let me educate
you really nicely about how superman
works was like
the cape is not part of the whole flying
thing even to this day is still one of
the things i'm most proud of just
because i put my heart and soul into it
and everyone else did and yeah it's just
it turned out great
final destination final destination this
is one of the best sequences ever
committed to film in my opinion oh
that's that's a high statement
i'm serious the scene manages to take
something that would have taken place in
like five seconds and have it be like a
two minute sequence
what happened on final destination was
um the visual effects supervisor showed
the director a physically accurate seam
of these giant logs falling off the
truck and the director was like well
that's boring i want them to be bouncing
high in the air i want to be really
violent and scary but logs don't do that
so that was it like establishing okay so
what you want isn't real you want hyper
real you want a hollywood this shot here
originally just went thud and fell on
the ground yeah those are very bouncy
trees now that you point it out exactly
literally the log bounces higher than
from the platform it fell off of yeah
which is physically impossible they're
like rubber giant bouncy logs like right
there
the way this was all done was 3ds max
it's kind of cool because like all those
tools are really accessible but it's
just more like once you get the system
set up you can just do what you want and
it automatically kind of reciprocates
and does the behavior
[Applause]
like garbage truck driver just hasn't
touched his brakes at all he's like
screw it i mean the car just explodes i
got the new tesla garbage truck and the
self-driving thing isn't really working
the funny thing is like i'll do a note
that they want and then i'll do one that
i think is real and then i'll do a
ridiculous version which would be like
an explosion that's like really over the
top and the whole point is like i'll do
the silly dumb ones so they're like well
that's stupid and that way we could say
okay well here's your version here's my
one and here's the stupid one so we're
gonna work within this this range the
downside is that every single time i put
the stupid over-the-top explosion or
whatever it would be he's like that's it
i want that and i'm like no i did that i
did that on purpose so that way you say
that was dumb you're supposed to not
like that i watched your home alone all
right and it made me think of like that
that's what they should have been doing
with this stuff is it's pretty much the
same thing it's like final destination
with uh nicole calkin yeah
last time we asked for subscriptions 40
of the people that watched our videos
weren't subscribed guess where that
number's at now 45.7 you're correct
friend that's a very good guess we're at
45.7 people that are not subscribed so
somehow the number of people not
subscribed went up please consider
subscribing if you enjoy these videos it
helps us out thank you so much don't
make it 48.2 percent
oh here we go here we go
i personally feel like the the dynamics
on the plane it's cool but i'd rather
see a crumple and tear apart right there
it's very much like it kind of breaks
into the cabins it seems very much so
intentional so you can see the entirety
of the plane i don't think a wing would
actually break like that it would
probably snap off before it would just
like
crumble away
that was actually pretty sweet looking
but the actual like
nuclear bomb thing kind of looked uh
the mushroom stick it's pretty much
because they're hitting a button you've
got gas come out and then the gas
converts in the fire base in the
temperature and it just creates this
curl and because that's just the kind of
perfect mushroom and there's not much
else going in usually what you'd want to
do is break it up and add a lot more
chaos to it maybe have multiple sims you
can have levels of detail but it's also
to do with how the fire converts from
the smoke it's like this gradient when
you mention the gradient the smoke you
can really see here all the fire is one
color across the entire thing and then
as the fire burns out the smoke itself
turns orange right there yep exactly
it's not it's not glowing it's not fire
emitting color it's just the smoke
itself is now orange and then it's a
dark red and then it's a brown and it's
a black i think that's what i was
seeing instead it looked like plastic it
kind of has like a different material
quality now at that specific point fire
is a light source so obviously it's
going to illuminate everything and even
if you look at the fire down the bottom
right everything's wet so it should be
really reflective my understanding is
the plane would actually be a much
bigger explosion if it had fuel on it
and on top of that it's a giant light
source so everything around it would be
illuminated by the fire like almost a
daylight for a moment i think there's a
perfect shot to describe what you're
talking about it's from the james bond
film where like the whole field is on
fire and they had a bunch of led lights
and then they just camped out the led
lights and put fire in but you get that
illumination effect so it's like you
have all of this lighting and that's
actual real lighting filmed on set and
so you're getting all that illumination
through the air and fog and illuminating
the ground that edge light all the
actual stuff that you want to keep in
the scene that you can't simulate
usually why people look at a shot and
they're like oh that looks fake is
because there's this big disconnect
between the lighting on the actors and
the environment around them because
they're shot separately or whatever it
might be and that's become such a big
thing now where they will use leds where
you can set up to be fire or it can
actually pull colors from the plate that
was shot on to reproject onto their
faces so that allows everything to be
integrated a lot more hey if you have a
show or an effect specifically that you
would like us to look at leave a comment
down below not only do you like reacting
to good effects we actually like looking
at bad effects because it's really
really educational put them in the
comments below and we will use those to
inspire our next bfx artist react
wait so does the world end at the end of
this movie yeah
spoiler alert everybody died
the fire is just phasing through the
ground
so one thing you'll notice about this is
that none of the buildings actually
being destroyed and this is partially
because houdini and maya couldn't do it
at the time it's pretty much just smoke
and fire wrapping around everything
rather than actually being destroyed it
almost looks like the buildings are
converting to fire straight up equals mc
square just mass going to energy
it's interesting like compared to the
plane crash like you you actually see
the licks and tendrils of flame within
the smoke it's not just the smoke being
a gradient from yellow to black
so you've kind of gained this reputation
in the industry for doing like these
disintegration ash techniques and so
because of that you kept getting those
jobs yeah but what was the job that
started it all i feel like it was blade
there's some stuff i've done before that
but blade kind of ended up being the
thing that directors would reference
[Music]
oh there it is
yep there it is
dude the motion the dynamics yeah
there's like all these different
elements that go into it so there's the
fire that spreads over everything
there's the smoke there's the dynamics
of the actual skeleton underneath impact
sparks
embers that are in the air the layers me
personally i would have probably gone
about this a little bit differently in
hindsight like automated a lot of stuff
we just had like eight really good
people in a room so we're all just kind
of like jumping on everything and doing
it all together and it's just brute
force we killed like 120 vampires was
nuts i like how he cleans off his blade
even though it's already like flawlessly
it's like shiny it's like probably made
it dirtier by wiping it on his jacket
there's uh there's a shot here where he
takes everyone out and there's like one
guy who actually doesn't kill him on the
ground or there yeah and so he just kind
of died
he's like oh wait everyone else is dying
we didn't even notice until like a week
or two before delivery and it's just
like what about that guy
so that's so crazy it's weird how you
can be so like detail-oriented on these
things and then just like is something
else like so big that you just miss it
yeah because you're so focused on
everything else going on one thing we
found was and every single time they
died like there was something missing
and we couldn't put our finger on what
it was and so what would happen is like
when he'd shoot someone or stab them i
started having these like exit trails of
sparks which seems like a simple thing
but it just it added everything it made
the whole thing make sense visually yeah
it's just that little icing on the cake
that made it feel like instead of it
just being an effect it made sense like
there's cause and effect going on with
it blade was arguably the first good
comic book movie the first one was the
very first blade yeah and played two
directed by guillermo del toro oh man
yeah that was so good alan so you
actually do a whole like mentorship
program like a year-long thing where you
actually like help artists get into the
industry i've launched like a one-year
mentorship where i've been helping
artists break in the film industry as
well as others be able to get like their
dream job so a lot of people go to ilm
weta a lot of other big studios we'll
have a link in our description ellen
thank you so much for joining us on the
show i really appreciate it loved all
your insights it was really cool to meet
the guy that helped me learn how to do
explosions and destruction and all that
kind of stuff oh this has been great
guys so thank you so much all right guys
thank you so much for watching please
consider subscribing if you haven't
already and of course we love your
comments telling us what we should look
at we'll take it all
[Laughter]
so long
i'm gonna put a nerf blaster on a drone
i want to throw my nerf axe and hit your
drone out of the air challenge accepted